Report:

Project Title:
            
            conversion of file formats into some formats which are acceptable by networkX
            
Group members:
        Rajith  - CS14BTECH11016
        Sreekar - CS14BTECH11033
        Prasad  - CS14BTECH11009            

Motivation for the project:
        
        Some kind of data or information are stored in csv and xlsx  like mobile data so if we want to 	study the data with Gephi or 
        networkx we cannot do directly so we have to convert that data into some graph format which are accpetable by that sofware so that 
        we can study the data.
        
        And networkx intakes so many graph formats  and outputs so many so we can read from one graph format and write to other graph 
        formats.
	
	The main concern is about [csv] and [xlsx]
        
A brief description of the project:
        
        The project is based on the conversion of the file formats. There is a module named NetworkX in python which works with the graphs. 
        This module has many functions but the only drawback of this module is the acceptance of less number of file formats. Each of these 
        file formats which are accepted by NetworkX consists of the information of the graphs like nodes, edges, attributes to nodes and 
        edges etc. This module NetworkX is basically a module in Python in which we can generate graphs and modify or add information to the 
        graphs.
        
        Most of the social networking networking sites like facebook and some mobile networks like airtel etc. wants their tabular form of 
        information to be stored in a graph formats which is easy to understand and can estimate many things simply just by looking. This 
        NetworkX can be used in python to calculate some things from the graphs. But the only disadvantage of this module is that it cannot 
        accept the csv file format. 'csv' and 'xlsx' are the file formats which are obtained from microsoft Excel. While most of these 
        social networking sites and mobile network represent their data in csv file formats. It cannot use this networkX module to 
        manipulate the graphs.
        
        Hence we made a file format converter which converts csv and xlsx file formats into file formats which are acceptable by the module 
        NetworkX this makes work of the manipulations in graphs easy.

TOOLS/TECHNIQUES USED FOR THE PROJECT:
        
        Python with NetworkX module, xlsx to csv converter module, csv module, xlsx module,  gexf module, gml module, pickle module, graphML 
        module, YAML module, LEDA module, SparseGraph6 module, Pajek module, GISShapefile module.
        
        NOTE: NetworkX is included as module in our program hence it has to be installed. Same case with xlsx to csv.
        
        TECHNIQUES:
            CSV files are generally the tables in excel files. In this formats the rows are seperated by commas and the coloumns by line
            we took each row. The Top most column is the headings coloumn.
            
            We ask the user which attributes should be inseted as nodes, edges, its attributes in the graph. We are adding each node, edge 
            and its attributes by creating a virtual graph using NetwrkX module. 
            
            By using an inbuilt networkX function 'write' we fed this data into a required file format.

IDEAS ON HOW THE PROJECT CAN BE IMPROVED:
       
       Providing user interface would be helpful to improve this project on which we are working.            
